README.md, before:

raspberry-pi-home-automation
============================
A node.js based home automation system based around the Raspberry Pi. For background around this project:

[![The Well Tempered Hacker](http://img.youtube.com/vi/SEAQVXHSwg4/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SEAQVXHSwg4)

Installation
============
To get started, clone the repository and install the required dependencies.

    git clone https://github.com/anders94/raspberry-pi-home-automation.git
    cd raspberry-pi-home-automation
    npm install

Server
======
The server uses MQTT, a lightweight messaging channel over TCP, and presents a
pub-sub like interface to clients. Clients connect and can publish messages which
get copied to all other connected clients.

To start the server:

    node server

It will connect and listen to 0.0.0.0:1883 by default.

Clients
=======
Clients read from and optionally write to the GPIO pins on the Raspberry Pi. Light
switches are directly attached to 3.3v GPIO pins pushing them either high or low.
Solid state relays to switch 120v AC loads are driven via 3.3v GPIO pins which are
up-converted to 5v with a transistor. (3.3v isn't quite enough to solidly switch the
Sharp S216S02 solid state relays I'm using) You may need to access GPIO pins as root
depending on how you have things set up.

watch.js
--------
Fires a callback when the GPIO pin state changes. Use this to test GPIO input 
functionality.

blink.js
--------
Blinks GPIO pins on and off for 5 seconds so you can get your SSR setup working.

light-switch.js
---------------
Simple on / off lightswitch example linking input and output. It does exactly
what you think it does.

multi-light-switch.js
---------------------
Connects to a server to publish events and works as a four position lightswitch 
for two lights. See the video for a demonstration of this in action.

Commit message:

multi-light-switch server / MQTT wording

README.md, after:

raspberry-pi-home-automation
============================
A node.js based home automation system based around the Raspberry Pi. For background around this project:

[![The Well Tempered Hacker](http://img.youtube.com/vi/SEAQVXHSwg4/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SEAQVXHSwg4)

Installation
============
To get started, clone the repository and install the required dependencies.

    git clone https://github.com/anders94/raspberry-pi-home-automation.git
    cd raspberry-pi-home-automation
    npm install

Server
======
The server uses MQTT, a lightweight messaging channel over TCP, and presents a
pub-sub like interface to clients. Clients connect and can publish messages which
get copied to all other connected clients.

To start the server:

    node server

It will connect and listen to 0.0.0.0:1883 by default.

Clients
=======
Clients read from and optionally write to the GPIO pins on the Raspberry Pi. Light
switches are directly attached to 3.3v GPIO pins pushing them either high or low.
Solid state relays to switch 120v AC loads are driven via 3.3v GPIO pins which are
up-converted to 5v with a transistor. (3.3v isn't quite enough to solidly switch the
Sharp S216S02 solid state relays I'm using) You may need to access GPIO pins as root
depending on how you have things set up.

watch.js
--------
Fires a callback when the GPIO pin state changes. Use this to test GPIO input 
functionality.

blink.js
--------
Blinks GPIO pins on and off for 5 seconds so you can get your SSR setup working.

light-switch.js
---------------
Simple on / off lightswitch example linking input and output. It does exactly
what you think it does.

multi-light-switch.js
---------------------
Connects to the server (IP is manually set in the source) via MQTT and 
publishes light switch events. It works as a four position lightswitch 
for two lights. See the video for a demonstration of this in action.
